PRACTICESET 1: Easy
For each of Ques tions 1 to 5, select the twoanswer choices that, when used to complete the sentence, fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole andproduce completed sentences that are alike in meaning.
1. Retrofitted  with stabilizing devices, some of which _________ its aesthetics, the bridge has been reopened, no longer prone to excessive swaying but not quite the breathtaking structure it originally was. A impair B resist C improve D enhance E restore F compromise
2. Although cosmic objects have struck Earth since the planet’s very formation, humanity has only recently become aware of these events: two centuries ago the idea that objects orbiting the Sun could collide with Earth was widely _________. A ridiculed B doubted C disseminated D promulgated E marginalized F disbelieved
3. That people _________ the musical features of birdsongs suggests that despite the vast evolutionary gulf between birds and mammals, songbirds and humans share some common auditory perceptual abilities. A mimic B recognize C relish D are confounded by E can make out F are puzzled by
81
Question Type 3: Sentence Equivalence
4. Torpey’s study has turned a seemingly _________ topic, the passport, into a fascinating one by making an original contribution to the sociology of the state. A ironic B banal C provocative D witty E insipid F stimulating
5. Britain is attractive to worldwide advertisers because it is _________ market, so there is no need to tailor advertisements for different parts of the country. A a global B an uncomplicated C a vast D a homogeneous E a uniform F an immense

Explanations
1. Choice A: impair; AND Choice F:compromise 2. Choice B: doubted; AND Choice F: disbelieved 3. Choice B: recognize; AND Choice E: can make out 4. Choice B: banal; AND Choice E: insipid 5. Choice D: a homogeneous; AND Choice E: a uniform
PRACTICE SET 1: Easy
For each of Questions 1 to 5, select the twoanswer choices that, when used to complete the sentence, fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole andproduce completed sentences that are alike in meaning.
1. Retrofitted with stabilizing devices, some of which its aesthetics, the bridge has been reopened, no longer prone to excessive swaying but not quite the breathtaking structure it originally was. A impair B resist C improve D enhance E restore F compromise 
Explanation The sentence suggests that the addition of devices to make the bridge more stable has consequently lessened its previous aesthetic impact as a “breathtaking structure.” The words “restore,” “improve,” and “enhance” do not describe the appropriate qualitative direction of the change caused by the retrofitting as “impair” and “compromise” do. Though “resist” makes some sense when inserted into the blank, it does not produce a sentence with the same meaning as either of these. Thus the correct answer is impair(Choice A) and compromise(Choice F).
2. Although cosmic objects have struck Earth since the planet’s very formation, humanity has only recently become aware of these events: two centuries ago the idea that objects orbiting the Sun could collide with Earth was widely . A ridiculed B doubted C disseminated D promulgated E marginalized F disbelieved 
Explanation The colon introduces an example that explains or demonstrates the former lack of awareness about cosmic collisions with Earth. Because people were not aware of the existence of events of this type, the idea of their possibility would not have been “disseminated” or “promulgated.” Although “ridiculed” and “marginalized” make sense when inserted into the blank, they do not produce sentences with the same meaning, which “doubted” and “disbelieved” do. Thus the correct answer is doubted(Choice B) and disbelieved(Choice F).
3. That people the musical features of birdsongs suggests that despite the vast evolutionary gulf between birds and mammals, songbirds and humans share some common auditory perceptual abilities. A mimic B recognize C relish D are confounded by E can make out F are puzzled by
Explanation According to the sentence, some human ability or other suggests that humans share a perceptual ability with songbirds. The words that fill the blank must allow for the existence of this ability in humans, which “are confounded by” and “are puzzled by” do not. Although both “mimic” and “relish” make sense when inserted into the blank, they each designate more than just perception, and they both lack another word that would create a sentence similar in meaning. Thus the correct answer is recognize(Choice B) and can make out(Choice E).
4. Torpey’s study has turned a seemingly topic, the passport, into a fascinating one by making an original contribution to the sociology of the state. A ironic B banal C provocative D witty E insipid F stimulating
Explanation The adjective “seemingly” indicates that the words that fill the blank will contrast with “fascinating.” Of the responses, “banal” and “insipid” are both opposites of “fascinating,” and they yield sentences alike in meaning, so they are the correct response. While “provocative” and “stimulating” are near in meaning, they do not provide any contrast to “fascinating,” so they are incorrect. Neither of the other responses has a near synonym among the choices, nor do they provide any opposition to the characterization of the passport as a fascinating topic. Thus the correct answer is banal (Choice B) and insipid(Choice E).
5. Britain is attractive to worldwide advertisers because it is market, so there is no need to tailor advertisements for different parts of the country. A a global B an uncomplicated C a vast D a homogeneous E a uniform F an immense
Explanation The sentence describes a country whose different parts share a similarity that does not require differential action (tailoring for different parts) by advertisers. The blank must designate this sameness. While the words “vast” and “immense” produce sentences with the same meaning—and “global” less so—they all describe size, not similarity. Being “uncomplicated” might also attract advertisers, but it suggests a different virtue than similarity, and there is no other word that produces a sentence with the same meaning. Thus the correct answer is a homogenous(Choice D) and a uniform(Choice E).

