
1. He believed that because there is serious unemployment in our auto industry, we should not ———— foreign cars. (A) build (B) repair (C) review (D) import (E) consolidate
3. Until we are able to improve substantially the ———— status of the underprivileged in our country, a substantial ————— in our crime rate is remote.        Blank 1                       Blank 2 (A) financial (D) ascension (B) enormous (E) development (C) questionable (F) attenuation
5. Many buildings with historical significance are now being ——— instead of being torn down. (A) built (B) forgotten (C) destroyed (D) praised (E) repaired
7. Being ——— person, he insisted at the conference that when he spoke he was not to be interrupted. (A) a successful (B) a delightful (C) a headstrong (D) an understanding (E) a solitary
STRATEGY DIAGNOSTIC TEST FOR THE GRE  •  5
9. In spite of the ——— of her presentation, many people were ——— with the speaker’s concepts and ideas.       Blank 1                       Blank 2 (A) long-windedness  (D) enthralled       (E)  bored (B) formulation (F) gratified (C) forcefulness 
Select two answer choices that fit the sentence and give the sentence the same meaning.
11. Richard Wagner was frequently intolerant; moreover, his strange behavior caused most of his acquaintances to ________ the composer whenever possible. (Choose two answers) (A) contradict (B) interrogate (C) shun (D) revere (E) tolerate (F) reject
She walked along the river until a policeman stopped her. It was one o’clock, he said. Not the best time to be walking alone by the side of a half-frozen river. He smiled at her, then offered to walk her home. It was the first day of the new year, 1946, eight and a half months after the British tanks had rumbled into Bergen-Belsen. That February, my mother turned twenty-six. It was difficult for strangers to believe that she had ever been a concentration camp inmate. Her face was smooth and round. She wore lipstick and applied mascara to her large dark eyes. She dressed fashionably. But when she looked into the mirror in the mornings before leaving for work, my mother saw a shell, a mannequin who moved and spoke but who bore only a superficial resemblance to her real self. The people closest to her had vanished. She had no proof that they were truly dead. No eyewitnesses had survived to vouch for her husband’s death. There was no one living who had seen her parents die. The lack of confirmation haunted her. At night before she went to sleep and during the day as she stood pinning dresses, she wondered if, by some chance, her parents had gotten past the Germans or had crawled out of the mass grave into which they had been shot and were living, old and helpless, somewhere in Poland. What if only one of them had died? What if they had survived and had died of cold or hunger after she had been liberated, while she was in Celle* dancing with British officers? She did not talk to anyone about these things. No one, she thought, wanted to hear them. She woke up in the morning, went to work, bought groceries, went to the Jewish Community Center and to the housing office like a robot.

37. The policeman stopped the author’s mother from walking along the river because: (A) the river was dangerous (B) it was the wrong time of day (C) it was still wartime (D) it was too cold (E) she looked suspicious
5
10
15
20
25
30
39. The author states that his mother thought about her parents when she (A) walked along the river (B) thought about death (C) danced with the officers (D) arose in the morning (E) was at work
41. When the author mentions his mother’s dancing with the British officers, he implies that his mother (A) compared her dancing to the suffering of her parents (B) had clearly put her troubles behind her (C) felt it was her duty to dance with them (D) felt guilty about dancing (E) regained the self-confidence she once had
That one citizen is as good as another is a favorite American axiom, supposed to express the very essence of our Constitution and way of life. But just what do we mean when we utter that platitude? One surgeon is not as good as another. One plumber is not as good as another. We soon become aware of this when we require the attention of either. Yet in political and economic matters we appear to have reached a point where knowledge and specialized training count for very little. A newspaper reporter is sent out on the street to collect the views of various passersby on such a question as “Should the United States defend El Salvador?” The answer of the barfly who doesn’t even know where the country is located, or that it is a country, is quoted in the next edition just as solemnly as that of the college teacher of history. With the basic tenets of democracy—that all men are born free and equal and are entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness—no decent American can possibly take issue. But that the opinion of one citizen on a technical subject is just as authoritative as that of another is manifestly absurd. And to accept the opinions of all comers as having the same value is surely to encourage a cult of mediocrity.
43. Which phrase best expresses the main idea of this passage? (A) the myth of equality (B) a distinction about equality (C) the essence of the Constitution (D) a technical subject (E) knowledge and specialized training
45. The author most probably included the example of the question on El Salvador (lines 11212) in order to (A) move the reader to rage (B) show that he is opposed to opinion sampling (C) show that he has thoroughly researched his project (D) explain the kind of opinion sampling he objects to (E) provide a humorous but temporary diversion from his main point
15
20
47. The author would be most likely to agree that (A) some men are born to be masters; others are born to be servants (B) the Constitution has little relevance for today’s world (C) one should never express an opinion on a specialized subject unless he is an expert in that subject (D) every opinion should be treated equally (E) all opinions should not be given equal weight
Mist continues to obscure the horizon, but above us the sky is suddenly awash with lavender light. At once the geese respond. Now, as well as their cries, a beating roar rolls across the water as if five thousand housewives have taken it into their heads to shake out blankets all at one time. Ten thousand housewives. It keeps up—the invisible rhythmic beating of all those goose wings—for what seems a long time. Even Lonnie is held motionless with suspense. Then the geese begin to rise. One, two, three hundred— then a thousand at a time—in long horizontal lines that unfurl like pennants across the sky. The horizon actually darkens as they pass. It goes on and on like that, flock after flock, for three or four minutes, each new contingent announcing its ascent with an accelerating roar of cries and wingbeats. Then gradually the intervals between flights become longer. I think the spectacle is over, until yet another flock lifts up, following the others in a gradual turn toward the northeastern quadrant of the refuge. Finally the sun emerges from the mist; the mist itself thins a little, uncovering the black line of willows on the other side of the wildlife preserve. I remember to close my mouth—which has been open for some time—and inadvertently shut two or three mosquitoes inside. Only a few straggling geese oar their way across the sun’s red surface. Lonnie wears an exasperated, proprietary expression, as if he had produced and directed the show himself and had just received a bad review. “It would have been better with more light,” he says; “I can’t always guarantee just when they’ll start moving.” I assure him I thought it was a fantastic sight. “Well,” he rumbles, “I guess it wasn’t too bad.”
5
10
15
20
25
30
STRATEGY DIAGNOSTIC TEST FOR THE GRE  •  11
49. In the descriptive phrase “shake out blankets all at one time” (line 5), the author is appealing chiefly to the reader’s (A) background (B) sight (C) emotions (D) thoughts (E) hearing
51. The mood created by the author is one of (A) tranquility (B) excitement (C) sadness (D) bewilderment (E) unconcern
53. The main idea expressed by the author about the geese is that they (A) are spectacular to watch (B) are unpredictable (C) disturb the environment (D) produce a lot of noise (E) fly in large flocks
55. Judging from the passage, the reader can conclude that (A) the speaker dislikes nature’s inconveniences (B) the geese’s timing is predictable (C) Lonnie has had the experience before (D) both observers are hunters (E) the author and Lonnie are the same person

Answers
1 D Sentence Completion 1, 2 A p. 140 20
3 A, F Sentence Completion 3, 4 D p. 143 40
5 E Sentence Completion 2, 6 B p. 141 30
7 C Sentence Completion 3, 8 B p. 143 30
9 C, E Sentence Completion 3, 10 C p. 143 40
11 C, F Sentence Completion 3, 12 B p. 143 30
37 B Reading Comprehension 38 B 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 15
39 E Reading Comprehension 40 B 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 20
41 D Reading Comprehension 42 B 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 20
43 B Reading Comprehension 44 B 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 20
45 D Reading Comprehension 46 B 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 30
47 E Reading Comprehension 48 D 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 30
49 E Reading Comprehension 50 D 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 20
51 B Reading Comprehension 52 B 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 20
53 A Reading Comprehension 54 B 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 20
55 C Reading Comprehension 56 D 1, 2, pp. 155, 158 30